---
layout: post
title:  "2013-2014 NBA Schedule"
date:   2013-08-13 14:23:26
categories: nba deploy python
---

Last week I pushed to GitHub [a repo of the 2013-2014 NBA
Schedule](https://github.com/davewalk/2013-2014-nba-schedule) by team in
JSON and CSV formats. The schedules were announced a few days earlier
and at the time they weren’t available anywhere to download. So I
created a few Python scripts that scraped the schedule from ESPN.com and
included information about where each game would be played, including
coordinates geocoded from the Google Maps API.

Not entirely sure why I did this! Well, I’m a total basketball nerd for
one. And I was annoyed that the data wasn’t available in a format that
it could easily be used. Since then basketball-reference.com and the
team sites on nba.com have included CSV downloads, but the formatting
differs from team-to-team and sometimes game times are in the local time
of the team, which is annoying. But my repo is standardized and would be
useful if you were making a NBA app. And [I happen to have
one](https://github.com/davewalk/did-the-nba-team-win-last-night) that
is due for a re-write for the next season.

Storing shareable, scraped, static data (the three S’s!) on GitHub has
me thinking of what else I can do. What’s stopping me from updating
these schedules weekly with results once the season starts? What about
scraping ALL of the data for each game? Why not? Storage is free and
once I write the script it would be a snap to update.

I’ll have to think about this as the season approaches. In the meantime
hopefully someone comes across this repo out of the millions on GitHub
and finds it useful.

